In general terms, the path towards freedom is opened up not by the solution of contradictions, but by the dissolution of the mind that sees contradictions. In particular terms, the knowledge of oneself is attained not by becoming more familiar, but by becoming increasingly unfamiliar with oneself. 

Is it not true that during the renovation of a room, the more is fixed, the less familiar it becomes? And to evict the angry fool, the envious haggard, the resentful maniac is crucial to the initial surveyance and eventual renovation of one’s own room:  

“You made promises and I harbored you. You insinuated that I would have to be desirous in order to receive, furious in order to accomplish and begrudge in order to revenge. We have dined and schemed, slept and thrashed, bathed and maligned together and you have made yourself familiar to me.  

I see the state of the room of which you have been tenants. You have brought nothing but destruction; I do not wish to know you, but to forget you, to become unfamiliar and to not even recognize you. For only the familiar recognize each other and I am no longer one of you. You have upset my neighbors and you have convinced me of my neighbors’ intolerance and avarice; you have made me stomp and thump; you have made me noisy and feisty; you have turned my home into a camp and the world into a battleground. I will lay down the weapon that you handed to me; I will use it no longer, neither against my neighbor nor for your eviction. Rather, I will make this room unbearable to you: I will make it silent and peaceful, sparse and dignified, clean and bright. 

Whoever else is concealed in their filth will be thrown out together with it. There will be no more corners, recesses or abrasions in this room; nothing for pride to stick to, for jealousy to tuck in, for rage to grind on. I will no longer allow countrymen, kinsmen or bogeymen entrance, for every time they enter, too small a patriotism, too large a pride and too deep a fear enters with them. This room is not exclusive to me, for I know not who I am, it is more so to the exclusion of those who I am not, for I know now who they are.”